# hiring_game_dev_case-variation-feel

## Thought process

Before even starting changing things, I checked the project and made a list of elements that would be cool to change, improve or create from scratch.

I will try to put that list in order from most important to less important, following the idea that the most important things are the ones that make the player understand what is happening. On the starting version of the game, it is not clear when you take damage, when you are attacking, and depending on what you do it is not even obvious if you are attacking at all. So most important changes will be direct feedback ones, the minimal for each action happening in the game. After that, i will try to put improvements that make them cooler. Note that this is NOT the list of finished improvements, just a first study of what CAN I do to make the game better, and will do whatever i'm able in the expected time.

Also, the order can be pretty subjective. There are some obvious improvements that is difficult to not put the first on the list, but after that, it becomes a lot of my own opinion. The list would be as follows:

- **Attack, damage and death animations for player and enemies**. Right now player only have idle and run, and enemies idle and run (but they are never idle). First and most important task would be to implement the transition between animations to at least know when things are happening. The most time consuming part will probably be the actions happening WHILE animating, and not before the animation. For example, i expect the enemy to damage the hero instantly, and then play the animation. There are lots of ways to do this, but i will probably take the easy route of adding some delays before causing the damage. That's prone to error and i will try to consider all edge cases (like diying while the timer is on).
- It would be great to have something **indicating which enemy you are attacking**. Some outline, small circle on the bottom of the enemy, an arrow... and the player character looking at that enemy.
- **Current life**. Might not be needed on some designs, but a simple lifebar that changes colors when it gets smaller should be good enough to at least put some pressure on the player when receiving damage.
- **Hit confirmations**. Even if an animation shows the sword swinging or the enemy attacking, it is important to know when the actual damage happened. I think at least a VFX, model color change (flash white when dealt damage for example) and maybe damage numbers might be ok. All of them together should be cool, but might not implement the model color change depending on the shader setup (will explain more later).
- Enemies automatically disappear (game object destroyed, probably) when dying. I will make it so they die after a few seconds, so **the death animation can play and be seen** (potential bug point, i will make sure that they are not targeteable when dead!).
- Some **cool effect of the sword** when swinging would be good, even before it hits.
- **Enemy spawn**. They can appear from above, materialize from transparent to fully opaque, or a VFX with a "poof" and a cloud of dust and they appear from inside, or whatever. Might try the last one as it seems cute.
- **Screen shake**! Easy and looks good if done moderately. Will probably add it for when the player receives damage. Other option is adding it to when the enemies receive damage, but not both. I prefer when the player receives damage as it is easy to think of the shake as something bad (some immersion).
- At this point we already have something indicating which enemy you are attacking. A next step would be a subtle **circle indicating the range of the player**. 
- **Enemy health bars**. I won't put a health bar on each enemy at the same time, because it will occuppy all of the screen. A good middle point is showing a health bar for enemies that either got damaged recently or enemies that have less than max life (i've seen games with lots of enemies do this). However, this is pretty low in the list, and i wouldn't mind if enemies didn't have health bars at all.
- **Audio**. If a miracle makes me get here, I would like to add audio. However, this is last in the list for two reasons: first of all, it can take long to implement, because there is no base in the project and choosing and making sure that the sounds are coherent is somewhat difficult. Second, the game is supposed to be for mobile. In mobile audio is not that important as for other platforms (not saying it is not important, just saying it is less!), and a lot of people play without audio. So i don't think it should be a priority.

After checking the list i don't think i will be able to implement all, but i will follow the list order, will change it if i find something in the game more difficult to read than i though, and will do all i can.

I will then log in this readme each feature I added, how i added and how much time it took to implement it.